$schema Guidance (#2266)
OAI/OpenAPI-Specification: versions/3.1.0.md

The [xml](#schemaXml) property allows extra definitions when translating the JSON definition to XML.
The [XML Object](#xmlObject) contains additional information about the available options.

###### Picking Schema Vocabularies

> OpenAPI documents are made up of multiple resources, sometimes resources are all in the same root OpenAPI document (inline resources), or resources are contain their own documents with `$ref` (separate resources). It is important for tooling to be able to detect what meta-schema any given resource wishes to be processed with: JSON Schema Core, JSON Schema Validation, OpenAPI Schema Object, or some custom meta schema.

Reviewer: Can we reserve the use of the word "resource" to mean a separate file, HTTP-style resource or (:copyright: @handrews an octet-stream), rather than overloading it by using the term "inline resources". Are these better just called "components"?

I think we also need to address that not all resources are JSON Schema or even collections of JSON Schema. Resources can be pretty much arbitrary JSON/YAML as long as they comply with the object structure of the location they're being `$ref`d from.

`s/are contain/MAY be contained/`

I'm not clear on the use-case for setting the meta-schema to JSON Schema Core in an OAS document would be.

We should be consistent on whether it's `meta-schema` or `meta schema`.

Reviewer 2: In JSON Schema world, we have started to refer to any schema which identifies itself as a "resource", which is probably where Phil is using the termonology from in this case. Specifically how schema resources can be embedded in other documents. If a JSON Schema has an `$id`, it's a "schema resource".

Author: I've changed this to be schema resource in a bunch of places. If the new version is no good lets start with new feedback and try to use the suggestion feature wherever possible to take a swing at making it better.

> The `$schema` keyword can be used to define which meta-schema should be used when interacting with any resource.

Reviewer: Again, only valid within a valid JSON Schema resource or a schema-object resource or within schema-objects within an OAS sub-document containing a `components` object.

Author: Would you like to take a swing at improving my nonsense with the Suggestion feature? I would appreciate the help.

Author: I think I might have got this sorted.

Inline resources will default to using `$schema: "https://json-schema.org/draft/2019-09/schema"`.

> Separate resources will default to using `$schema: "https://spec.openapis.org/oas/3.1/schema-object"`.

Reviewer: I'm confused by this distinction. It could be it's just the wrong way around?

Author: Totally backwards! 🙃

The [xml](#schemaXml) property allows extra definitions when translating the JSON definition to XML.
The [XML Object](#xmlObject) contains additional information about the available options.

###### Picking Schema Vocabularies

> OpenAPI documents are made up of multiple resources, sometimes resources are all in the same root OpenAPI document (inline resources), or resources are contain their own documents with `$ref` (separate resources). A schema object could exist as an inline resource, or a separate resource. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenAPI documents are made up of multiple resources. Sometimes resources are all in the same root OpenAPI document (inline resources); also, resources cam contain their own documents with `$ref` (separate resources). A schema object could exist as an inline resource, or a separate resource. 
```

Reviewer 4: @karenetheridge `cam` => `can`

Reviewer 3: doh, fixed

Reviewer: Where words like "could" and "can" take the meanings of words in the [RFC2119](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119) list like "MAY", we usually prefer those (and they should be capitalised).

> OpenAPI documents are made up of multiple resources. Sometimes resources are all in the same root OpenAPI document (inline resources); also, resources can contain their own documents with `$ref` (separate resources). A schema object could exist as an inline resource, or a separate resource. 

Reviewer: The opening sentence sounds like a re-visit of the `oasDocument` definition further up:

> A self-contained or composite resource which defines or describes an API or elements of an API.

We probably don't want two places saying nearly the same thing in different terms.

Reviewer: The use of "inline" to mean within the same root OAS document conflicts with our use elsewhere (e.g. in the `discriminator` section) where "inline" means "not accessed via a `$ref` (internal or external)".

Reviewer: Rather than say "sometimes this can happen" just say "this MAY happen".

Reviewer: Do you actually mean "resources can **contain** their own **documents** with `$ref` (separate resources)"?

Reviewer: Please can we avoid "could" and "can" along with "sometimes". Stick to "MAY" and other RFC2119 terms.

Author: This paragraph was setting up some stuff to make the following clear, but now that the following is simplified this can go away.

> It is important for tooling to be able to detect what meta-schema any given resource wishes to be processed with: JSON Schema Core, JSON Schema Validation, OpenAPI Schema Object, or some custom meta schema.

Reviewer: I appreciate we're importing the JSON Schema terminology here, but are "resources" only `schemaObjects` or is any component a resource? Only `schemaObjects` can indicate their `$schema` so it is only "important for tooling" when dealing with `schemaObjects`, not for example `parameters` or `responses`.

Reviewer: What would be the use-case for specifying JSON Schema Core as the meta-schema for a `schemaObject` / resource?

> Keywords declared in this section, which all begin with "$", make up the JSON Schema Core vocabulary.

A `schemaObject` or resource which only uses `$`-prefixed keywords doesn't sound very useful in an OAS context.

Reviewer 4: This is where it would be good to use the _dialect_ vs _vocabulary_ terminology: https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues/902

> JSON Schema Core, JSON Schema Validation

When written out and capitalized like this, these are usually the name of the specification documents, which don't quite map to meta-schemas.  The meta-schema that most people used is referred to as the ["default meta-schema"](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-handrews-json-schema-validation-02#section-5) in 2019-09.  We might say "default dialect meta-schema" as we add the "dialect" term in the next draft.

It would be very strange to use only the core vocabulary as all it does is bootstrap the JSON Schema system.  There is no standard meta-schema for the combination of vocabularies in the JSON Schema Core specification document (== core and applicator vocabularies).

> The `$schema` keyword can be used to define which meta-schema should be used when interacting with any schema resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `$schema` keyword can be used to identify which meta-schema should be used when interacting with any schema resource.
```

My feeling is "define" suggests the URI should be network acessable, where as it may not be. "Identify" hints at more work must be done in order to actually GET the meta-schema.

> The `$schema` keyword can be used to identify which meta-schema should be used when interacting with any schema resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `$schema` keyword MAY be used to identify which meta-schema should be used when processing a given schema resource.
```

Reviewer 4: `$schema` MAY be present, and if present MUST be used to determine which dialect should be used when processing the schema.  So for the schema author it's a MAY, for tooling consuming the schema, if present, it is a MUST.

> Inline schema resources will default to using `$schema: "https://spec.openapis.org/oas/3.1/schema-object"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inline schema resources MUST default to using `$schema: "https://spec.openapis.org/oas/3.1/schema-object"`.
```

Reviewer: Pending resolution of the outstanding question of whether these defaults are desirable (allowing for future versions of JSON Schema) or implicit/explicitly stated in some new top-level property/object.

> Separate schema resources will default to using `$schema: "https://json-schema.org/draft/2019-09/schema"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Separate schema resources MUST default to using `$schema: "https://json-schema.org/draft/2019-09/schema"`.
```

> Any schema resource can override this default by setting the `$schema` property to something else. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any schema resource MAY override this default by setting the `$schema` property to another value. 
```
